So, huge news. Grok 4.6 just got released as I'm recording this. But, here's like the big headline. xAI caught up with Anthropic. Now, the benchmarks for Grok 4.6 High are showing that they're equivalent or or close to Fable 5 Max. So, this is the first Grok release that is at the time of release is just neck to neck with the best OpenAI model and the best Anthropic model. 4.5 closed the distance and 4.6 but I'm right there neck to neck. Now, of course, this was foretold, so to speak. This was kind of predictable. xAI's or Spec Space xAI's purchase of Cursor probably had a lot to do with this. In fact, as they say here, the biggest difference between 4.5 and 4.6 was a much longer supplemental training run. So, we believe that 4.5 and 4.6, they are kind of the the V9 model or base as it's referred to. It's a 1.5 trillion parameter base model and 4.6 had a much longer supplemental training run versus 4.5. So, they used a lot of the data from Cursor. And as they say here, curated model generated data for reasoning and advanced technical concepts, high-quality engineering data, and an improved optimizer and training recipe. This produced a stronger foundation for the supervised fine-tuning and reinforcement learning stages that followed. Now, of course, most of us at this point view benchmark numbers with some suspicion cuz we've seen some places before kind of like just trying to game the system, get high scores on and those benchmarks, but the models themselves kind of failed basic tasks when people actually got their hands on them. Is that the case here? I don't think so. I've only played around this model for a few hours at this point and I got to say from my first initial experiences just right out of the gate, it's a beast. One of the first prompts that I did was I asked to kind of do a clone of Portal 2. So, kind of being able to fire different portals, blue and whatever, orange, right? You walk into one, you walk out the other. Something that a lot of the previous models up to very recently just weren't able to do. I used Grok Build to do this. It worked probably for two to three hours or thereabouts, and I don't want to say one shot cuz I had a few suggestions and I I steered it a little bit during the process, including asking it to add some sound effects and voice overs with 11 Labs, but pretty much yeah, it one shot one sort of level from Portal 2. Created all the mechanics, created all the models, which you're going to see in this demo in just a second. You know, all the three objects it's created. The conservation of momentum, the ability to see through the portals, the ability ability to see the character on the other side of the portal. It's important to understand that like this is not a low-end model. This feels like a high-end smart model. It created the entire room in one shot, including the puzzle that you're supposed to solve for multiple elements. So, take a look. So, this is chamber 07. Grok 4.6 build, basically a replica of Portal 2. >> Chamber 07, dual gate certification. Please proceed. >> And it's looking pretty good. We've got reflections, we got lighting. Test chamber 007. Blue gate. >> Blue gate established. >> Select the blue gate, and here is the >> Both gates are live. >> Let's see here. Oh, wow. All right. So, we have a character model with reflections. We're carrying that gun. Uh that is pretty nifty. Okay, let's go through here. Oh, wow. Okay, that's pretty smooth, I got to say. All right. So, if we wanted to go through here and have my character here. Wow, okay. So, I can see myself there. So, what happens if I walk through it? Oh, hey. That is >> one, emerge from the other. Momentum is conserved. >> is conserved as we go through it. >> Orange gate established. >> Oh, look at that. Okay, so that thing should I did not expect that to happen. I mean, it's supposed to happen. I just didn't expect it to. Okay, so this is our >> Wait, you mad at Cuba quiet. Do not introduce it to the acid. >> Do not introduce it to the acid. The the green bubbly stuff is the acid. Okay, so basically I guess what we want to do is slide this kind of like what is that game where you slide the thing across the ice? Loogie? Loogie? Something like that. Okay, we go through here and as it slides >> Yes. >> Hey, that is pretty good. I got to say. I'm statistically a success apparently. Well, thank you. So, there's a lot of really incredible and amazing things there. It's very impressive. Of course, keep in mind this was just the first I'm pretty sure this is the first prompt I I threw its way. I was trying to see if it works in Grok bot, which is the other big release from yesterday. But, I wasn't able to confirm that it was yet available in Grok bot. So, I did Grok build instead. That's where it built all of this. And it was built with Grok 4.6 on the high settings. Later I realized there's an extra high setting. So, I I do want to test around it with that, you know, turning up to 11. But, this was Grok 4.6 high and this is very similar to what I would expect Fable 5 to come up with on on the first attempt. So, again, Fable 5 level model from xAI. But, wait, there's more because pricing starts at $2 per million input tokens and $6 per million output tokens. Additionally, there's a fast variant, which is twice the price. My next test that I'm running within I'll post it more about this later. So, I'm trying to get it to build from the ground up fresh without reusing any of the existing code cuz I tried this before for a different model. So, this is a starting fresh. Here I'm using cursor by the way to to do this. Important point on cursor and Grok build because right now during launch week, so that's right now, you have double the usage for these new models if you're using cursor or Grok build. So, if you have those, do take advantage. And so, here in cursor I used a Grok 4.6 extra high fast. So, again, fast is that model that it's twice the speed, but it uses up twice the usage. Right now, you get, you know, twice the the usage, so it kind of evens out. But, here I'm trying to get it to do a fully AI automated run kind of streamer. So, in this case, it's going to be playing Pokémon Red and playing the game using voice to narrate what it's doing. Probably a HeyGen avatar kind of a video avatar that's going to explain everything while it's playing the game. It's also going to be able to talk to chat. And so, for that, I'm making sure that it adds some sort of a censorship so that people don't jailbreak it, which could be bad. So, we'll see. We'll see if this model survives contact with, you know, you all people. So far, the results are good. So, here's kind of what we have so far. Just keep in mind, this is a bare-bones prototype. If I click start game, so notice it loads up Pokémon Red. It goes quickly through the initial screen, and I know it's got past this right now. And so, right now, it doesn't have all the logic and all that stuff quite yet. Oh, the last time it did get out of the house. Right now, it seems to be stuck on something. But, the point is, on its first attempt, it was able to take a Pokémon Red emulator, hook it up to make sure that it's able to have enough of a harness to control the game. It created a fake chat. It created text-to-speech. So, that little model that's over there, as it's talking, that gets gets a real voiceover. And so, all this was built within the first hour or two of Grok 4.6 going live. So, again, I'm not claiming anything about this model yet. I'm saying just straight out of the gate, this thing is feeling pretty beefy. So, looking at these numbers, I'm not doubting them. I think this is kind of on the level that it's going to operate at. This is Cognition posting about Frontier Code 1.1. So, notice Grok 4.6 is right behind the Fable 5 and Opus 5 series of models. It's it's up there. What caught my eyes, Elon responded to a few of these messages saying that Grok 4.7 will exceed all current models. So, the next release, 4.7, which we're expecting in 3 to 4 weeks, will be number one on the [clears throat] chart assuming no one else releases new models which is not going to happen. But as of right now if everybody else was stuck in time for three to four weeks, it would be number one on the leader boards. And for that model they're adding a massive amount of SpaceX company data in supplemental training. Okay, so so far the only thing that's kind of like is confirmed so far is what we know about Grok 4.6. Some of the things that are coming in the future, these are speculations of certain announcements by Elon, some of the kind of rumors that are floating around. But we're expecting 4.7 to be a 2.1 trillion parameter model. Again, that's not verified by official sources as far as I know, but here is the important thing to understand. So, 4.5 wasn't that long ago. Now we got hit with 4.6. We have 4.7 coming out in say three to four weeks, and Grok 5 is targeted to be released before the end of the year. So, as you can imagine, that's a kind of a crazy release schedule. Why is this happening? xAI reorganized engineering to ship major updates every two to three weeks, it seems like. So, kind of keep all this in mind, right? So, they caught up, they got to Feat of Strength level, and they are just gunning to release, release, release. The pricing is $2 per million input, $6 per million output, so it's a half the price of comparable OpenAI and Anthropic frontier models. And we also have this SpaceX company data that's going to be used in supplemental training, but there's more, and this is kind of the the other side of the coin. This is the other big thing. So, this is Grok Bot. And if I understand correctly, 4.6 isn't running this quite yet. I I did a few tests here. I I don't think 4.6 went live on this thing yet. Now, as you recall from before, we talked about the different benchmarks. One of them was GPT Val. So, GPT Val takes real jobs, real projects that's done by real people out there that work in specific industries, and these models are asked to complete those projects. And then real humans sort of like verify. So, these humans have a lot of background working in those industries, and the industries are from engineering to like AutoCAD to some hospitality and travel industry like a travel agent. There's finance, video editing, like it's a broad range. It really represents a large part of the job market. And the 4.6 model beats out, you know, Fable 5 and everything else. Why is that important? Because it goes hand in hand with this with Grok Bot. So, Grok Bot is xAI's always on, always online, always available agent. So, it's on desktop apps. I believe it's on Linux, Mac OS, it's on Windows with Android versions coming soon. And the whole pitch is these are your AI teammates. So, this is not like a chatbot. These This is a team of agents that work for you. One of the first things that it kind of suggested you do is you create, you know, let's say a chief of staff. That's the role that it kind of recommends. And so, I I jump in here and I give it this this task. Initially, I was want to see how far I could take that AI streamer. So, I told it, "Do this. Create whatever agents you need." It does. So, everything here, most of these agents except one, it created automatically by itself. Then it begins running the various tasks and handing off the sort of the delegates work to those sub-agents. So, you're not talking to the million of AI agents working in the background. You're talking to your chief of staff or whatever you want to call it. It delegates, it thinks about it, it asks you questions, but those questions are might be the ones that are surfaced by the agents. You're You have one point of contact. Or you can have multiple points of contact, but the point is that you're not talking to every independent agent on here. If you're wondering, "Well, how could this be always on? Isn't this on your desktop?" Well, no. Each of these agents, Grok Bot, it has its own virtual machine in the cloud that it can use 24 hours a day. You can actually see the screen here. So, here it is. This is what's available for it to use. So, you can open up Chrome, terminal, whatever you want. What's interesting about this is there's actually a button to teach it a task. This is kind of brilliant because there's going to be a lot of things that these AI agents have to navigate that they're going to struggle with. I had one of my AI agents not through Grok, it was I think it was OpenAI or Claude, I I forget which, but I had it go online and go through an online messaging app like WhatsApp or Slack or what whatever it was to try to see if somebody had mentioned something. While I was doing that, it accidentally sent a message. Now, this wasn't a big deal, it caught the error immediately, deleted it, and the message was just the command it was run to to try to search through all the messages by keyword. So, it was something like search whatever keyword, right? So, it wasn't a big deal, but it could be bad in in a different circumstance, right? Because I didn't ask it to message people, but with these teach a task, I can actually show it, it gets recorded, and then Grok, these bots, they're able to execute those skills. Now, of course, this is great if you're trying to work with it, and it's kind of great for XAI because it's basically a lot of people kind of contributing data to these models. And by the way, of course, you have the choice to to opt out or not, so that's entirely up to you, but for the people that choose to opt in, of course, their data can be used to further improve these models. One other agent that I built was my X news real-time person that went through and basically checks real-time news on X. So, X slash Twitter, it goes out there and it starts searching for me. It's super fast at finding those news, so I just ask a question, you know, like, "Did So, I just ask it questions like, "Did anybody talk about this? Did Elon say something about this? Did somebody blah blah what whatever you want?" It goes through, it searches it, and it just explains it to you. So, one of the things I asked it is, "Grok 4.6, is it live on Grok bot? Is this where we're using it?" And I asked the other model, too, but it wasn't able to say which model it's running on, so I don't think as of that time Grok 4.6 was live here yet as far as I know. So, it found the official posts, it found some comments by Elon, and it said that so we're not 100% sure, it's likely coming very very soon. Do you want me to watch X for when they turn it on?" I said, "Yes." It automatically created routines and it's going to keep checking, you know, three times a day and for the next 10 days, after which he'll notify me one way or another. So, this is kind of awesome cuz now I have this bot whose job it is to keep searching X and when we get new updates, it notifies me. Since this is always-on, on 24/7, it's not like when I shut down my computer, it goes to sleep and forgets it. This will notify me for sure. So, the big point here is that these are meant to be more like your colleagues and coworkers that you delegate work to. So, this is kind of digital labor, right? So, this has been positioned by XAI as digital labor as actual workers. So, a company that has access to this basically is able to get a lot of the cognitive labor handed off to these agents that are online 24/7, that are able to do research, you know, when you're sleeping, put together projects, hand them back to you. And this is kind of I would say how they design it is innovative. Now, not like where they're breaking new frontiers or whatever, but there's a lot of little things here and there that just seem like when you start using you're like, "Oh, yeah, this feels right." One is kind of they pop up with these boxes more and more where you get to choose your own answer. Your initial impression might be like, "Oh, that's for, you know, people that are just starting out. Maybe they don't quite know exactly what they're trying to do." But working with this, I realized that there's a lot when you try to go fast, this is very helpful. Cuz when you give it a project, it might have a bunch of questions for you. Each time it asks you a question, you have to kind of sit there and and read it and think about it and then type out an answer or just speak an answer. There's been a number of times when it shows me something like this and just at a glance, I kind of know, "Oh, yeah, I know exactly which one of those options I want." Sometimes you don't even have to really consciously read the question. You get what it's asking you. So, at some point it asked me this question, right? And the answers were like, "Add Heygen or just use text-to-speech." Like I as soon as I glanced at it, I knew exactly what it was asking without needing to read the question. It was going, "Do you want to build out the video avatar or just leave that for later?" Like I knew and I was like, "Yeah, go ahead and build that out." Things like this might seem tiny, but it makes things go a lot faster. It's less of a cognitive load, right? You're not wasting cycles having to read the I mean in your own brain, so to speak, reading through everything. You're kind of like cuz you know what you want. The model doesn't. And so, any little polish we can add to make that transfer of knowledge faster and smoother and takes less effort, it's a big deal, especially as more and more work begins to get done like this. So, love this so far. The X News AI agent that adds the routine and then just says, "Yep, I'll go ahead and I'll start checking it three times a day for the next 10 days." I didn't ask it for that. It says here, "Do you want me to watch X for when they flip it?" Right? When it goes on. Yes. It's like, "All right, got it." And it adds the routine. This is beautiful. This is one of the things where I like this so much better than Fable 5, as much as I love Fable 5, but the way that it talks half of the time, half the answers, I'm like, "What are you saying?" I mean, at this point there's like entire memes by it. It's got this weird way of speaking, you know, and yeah, it's kind of funny, but after a while it kind of gets old. It's just like just tell me what I need to know. What are we talking about? So far, going through these and working with Grok, it's just so much faster. You just kind of fly through it. So, definitely encourage everybody to download this. It's super simple to set up. When you do so, create your kind of chief of staff or whatever name you want to use for it, then pin it to the top, and then try to use this as much as possible, and have it create its own structure underneath it so that you're sort of talking to just this thing. And then and maybe there's other sort of side agents like this X News one that you have off to the side that that it's its own thing. I don't need it going through the chief of staff, but for a lot of this work, have one agent in charge of it. And of course, this is easily cross-device, right? So, I can go from here to using it on my phone to wherever. I'm not relying on the computer being on at any given moment cuz it has its own computer. So, between Grok bot and Grok 4.6 coming out and the new models that are coming out, 4.7 and Grok 5, I mean, those are not out yet, but so far it looks like XAI is just in a great great position to start winning. Check it out within Grok bot if you have access to Cursor. You get some double the usage during launch week or if you're using it with Grok build, same thing. But, I got to say this is this is kind of exciting. It seems like Google is lagging slightly behind, but we still have, you know, multiple frontier models because here comes xAI to fill in Google's spot. So, congrats to xAI, congrats to Cursor. I was always very impressed with Cursor and all the stuff that they've been able to do. So, them joining forces with xAI, which has just incredible amounts of compute and and talent and capital in order to really put these two things together. I feel like they're going to have a lot of success in the future. But, let me know what you think. If you've had a chance to do more testing of Grok 4.6 more than I have so far, let me know. What do you think of it? Is it, in your opinion, as good as Fable 5 and GPT 5.6? Will you be using Grok bot? Let me know in the comments. If you made this far, thank you so much for watching. My name is Wes Roth. I will see you in the next one.