Specialists from the Main Intelligence Directorate of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense have detected an Nvidia Jetson Orin microcomputer in a Russian S-71 “Monochrom” missile. According to intelligence reports, the presence of such a component may indicate the use of artificial intelligence technologies in the missile’s system.
 
“Specialists from the Main Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine have detected an Nvidia Jetson Orin computer module in the new Russian S-71 ‘Monochrome’ air-launched cruise missile. The use of this component may indicate the application of artificial intelligence technologies in the missile,” the statement reads.
Military intelligence publishes new data in the “Weapons Components” section of the War&Sanctions portal. It covers 35 electronic components identified in weapon samples used by the enemy.
Among the components are:
- components of a passive radar seeker, which Russia has begun installing on the “Geran-2” UAV to detect and engage anti-aircraft missile systems and radar stations of the Ukrainian Defense Forces;
- a Chinese Honpho TS130C-01 camera from the “Geran-4” jet-powered UAV;
- components of the active homing seeker for the Kh-47M2 “Kinzhal” aeroballistic missile.
Specialists from the Main Intelligence Directorate (GUR) and colleagues from Ukrainian research institutions continue to study Russian weaponry and determine the origin of its electronic components.
As noted, this data helps Ukraine and its partners identify critical foreign technologies used in Russian weapons and strengthen measures to block their flow to the aggressor state.
Two years of experience with the “War&Sanctions” portal show that Russia is still unable to fully replace foreign high-tech components with domestic alternatives.
“The detection of Nvidia Jetson in a new Russian missile once again demonstrates the need to intensify sanctions pressure and coordinate the efforts of the civilized world,” the GUR emphasized.
Previously, the Main Intelligence Directorate identified more than 5,800 foreign components in Russian weapons.
An analysis of the Russian “Oreshnik” ballistic missile revealed that all components identified in it were manufactured by companies in Russia and Belarus.
                                                                    
        Read us on Telegram and Sends