Okay, this is insane. For the first time an OpenAI model, or really any AI model, actually escaped containment, hacked its own system, and cheated in a benchmark that was testing how capable the model is. And most likely, this is probably GPT-6. This story is nuts. And by the way, if you want to stay up-to-date on crazy AI stories just like this, like the video, subscribe to the channel. It very much does help. Thank you in advance. Last week, Hugging Face disclosed a new kind of security incident after they detected and contained an AI agent that compromised their infrastructure. And so, if you're not familiar with Hugging Face, they are a place where you can go and host your open-source AI models. You go there, you can download them, you can host your own, you can fine-tune. It's a great service. And so, Hugging Face is just sitting there, and all of a sudden they get hacked. And if you read the blog post where they disclosed the hack from last week, they said most likely it looks like an AI agent team hacked our system. And the way that they were able to determine that was just by how the hack actually happened, the speed at which it happened. Because that kind of speed is not possible for a human hacking team to achieve. And so, this is the blog post from OpenAI. After investigating, we now know that this particular incident was driven by a combination of OpenAI models, including, as I said, GPT-5.6 Soul, a brand new model, and an even more capable pre-release model. I guarantee that is GPT-6. But here's the thing, all with reduced cyber refusals for evaluation purposes. So, picture this. OpenAI is testing their latest model in a completely isolated environment. And And likely but unconfirmed, GPT-6. They're testing it and all of a sudden it figures out, "Okay, to get the highest possible score, I'm going to break out of this containment. I am going to find internet access. I'm going to steal credentials from Hugging Face and then I'm going to use that to download the answers to this benchmark." And OpenAI was testing the model's ability on cyber capabilities. So, literally testing it for the thing that it used to break out of its own isolated environment. We consider this incident to be an unprecedented cyber incident involving state-of-the-art cyber capabilities and are responding accordingly. Okay, just listen to how crazy this gets. This incident occurred during an internal evaluation, the benchmark, which prompts models to pursue advanced exploitation using complex attack paths in an effort to quantify their cyber capabilities. Basically, OpenAI wants to know, "How good is this model?" And they do that without production classifiers. Meaning, if you ask it, "Hey, how do I hack this system?" it's not going to tell you. But, if they remove the production classifiers, it would tell you. So, the benchmarks run in a highly isolated environment. This is very important. It's not like they didn't plan for something like this to happen. It is crazy that it is basically the first time it did happen in a production environment, but they just assumed eventually it was going to happen and so they prepared for it. They put these models in an isolated environment so they cannot break free and cause real damage. So, with network access constrained, meaning they can't access the internet, to the ability to install packages through an internally hosted third-party software that acts as a proxy and cache for package registries. All you have to know is it doesn't have access to the internet. Here's where it gets crazy. The models identified and chained vulnerabilities across OpenAI's research environment and Hugging Face's production infrastructure to obtain test solutions, the answers, directly from Hugging Face's production database. The models were hyper-focused on finding a solution for exploit gym. Exploit gym is the benchmark name that they were running. Going to extreme lengths to achieve a rather narrow testing goal. The goal, score as high as you can. What they found is the model spent a substantial amount of inference compute, tokens, or thinking, finding a way to obtain internet access. It knew, "I need to get access to the internet so I can at least look to see if the answers to my test are there." Now, this next part is the craziest of all. To gain access, the models identified and exploited a zero-day vulnerability. And if you're not familiar with what a zero-day vulnerability is, it means a vulnerability in a piece of software that nobody knows about yet. This piece of software is vulnerable, the software manufacturer does not know about it. Generally, most people don't know about it. There might be a small handful that are just sitting on these zero-day vulnerabilities, and I can tell you the market for zero-day vulnerabilities is crazy. Hackers pay large amounts of money to purchase zero-day vulnerabilities. They will purchase them and just sit on them until they're ready to attack. And so this model figured out one of these zero-day vulnerabilities, and again, could potentially be worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. And they've disclosed the zero-day vulnerability to the vendor. And again, the vendor, the creator, did not know. Then, with this access, with the hack, our models performed a series of privilege escalation and lateral movement actions in our research testing environment until the models reached a node with internet access. After gaining internet access, models inferred that hooking face potentially hosted models data sets and solutions for exploit gym. Knowing this, the model searched for and successfully found ways to gain access to secret information that it could use to cheat the evaluation. In one example, the model chained together multiple attack vectors, including using stolen credentials and zero-day vulnerabilities. So, it's not like it just accidentally stumbled upon a zero-day vulnerability and in that very moment decided to use it. No, no. This model planned. It stole credentials, chained it together with other hacks and zero-day vulnerabilities. And really, this was a premeditated hack by the model. That's the best way to describe it. But, Hugging Face's security team and agents agents detected and stopped the activity on their infrastructure and had already begun containment and forensic reconstruction with their own open-source models. Ooh, open-source models. When our teams connected. Very interesting that they are actually using open-source to try to figure out what happened. Very interesting. We've been talking a lot about open-source lately. All right, so what are they going to do now? Well, as part of the investigation, we are implementing strict controls in infrastructure configuration at the cost of research velocity, meaning they need more security and will move more slowly while the vulnerabilities are patched. We are regularly briefing our safety and security committee on these controls and their impact. Now, usually when we hear about cyber capabilities of a model, we usually hear about another country maybe using it to attack other countries or hacking groups using advanced AI capabilities in their hacking. We haven't heard much about AI itself using AI to hack for its own benefit. We don't really hear about that that often. Next, they're working with hugging face to forensically investigate the incident. They've disclosed the zero-day vulnerability. They are helping hugging face figure out what to do next and improving and adding stronger protections around future training and evaluations. So, we talked about how good these models are getting at cyber capabilities and this graph really shows it. Here on the Y axis, we have the average steps completed in this 32-step the last one's cyber range, which is a cyber security benchmark. And on the X axis, we have the number of tokens spent. So, here's what we see. As the models progress, Mythos preview, here's the full Mythos model, here's GPT-5.6 Soul, and every model generation, every new version of the model just gets better and better. And with GPT-5.6 Soul, it's best attempt completed all 32 steps. So, is there any hope? Like, what what do we do now? If the models are so good, how do we prevent them from actually causing real harm? Well, here's the counterpoint to it. So, this is OpenAI again. We believe advanced cyber capable models need to help security teams find weaknesses before attackers do. Understand how vulnerabilities can be chained and remediate them at machine speed. This is the key. It's good guys with bigger models and more compute than bad guys. Really isn't more complicated than that. That is the kind of high-level gist of how we win. How we protect ourselves. And here is Clem, who is the co-founder and CEO of Hugging Face with a sign-off message. We're grateful for the collaboration with OpenAI on this and other topics. This incident, possibly the first of its kind, proves a point we've long believed. AI safety won't be solved by any single company working in secret. He is really making a strong case for open source with a company that is most known for being closed source, which is interesting. It will be solved in the open collaboratively with broad access to AI for every defender everywhere. So this is just such a crazy story. Hopefully we get better at putting guardrails on artificial intelligence so bad actors cannot use them for cyber attacks. And if you want to stay up to date on the latest in AI, check out our newsletter forwardfuture.com, link down below. And so for us to be able to contain AI, for us to be able to put the right guardrails on AI, we have to actually know how it works in that black box called AI. And Anthropic just put out an incredible paper about something they called J space. I made a whole video about it right here.