The first fully autonomous AI cyber attack happened just a few days ago. This is as far as we know a world first and today we get the full breakdown of what actually happened. So this is Clem. So he's the founder of HuggyFace. His company was the victim of this attack and this report is what they've posted. If you were not aware of what happened basically a few days ago, this company, a tech company in the AI space, well, it was under cyber attack the likes of which we've never seen before. As I say here, it was an autonomous AI agent driven by a combination of open AI models that ran an end-to-end intrusion against our platform. It was thousands of small automated decisions executed at machine speed across short-lived sandbox environments with command and control staged on ordinary public web services. Now, we'll break down everything what that means, what happened. Here's the important thing to understand. Hugging face had no idea what was happening or who was doing this. They were trying to defend themselves with opensource AI models. The only thing they kind of guessed at that this was executed number one by a large language model and it was likely from a frontier AI company. So they didn't speculate but they kind of knew okay this has to be either OpenAI, Anthropic Rock, Google, maybe one of the Chinese counterparts. It was one of the big players in the space that unleashed this AI agent storm to try to hack them. Here's the thing. It wasn't a company or a person that decided to do this. It was the model itself. As far as we know, it was a combination of models. One of them GPT 5.6 Soul, one of the most advanced models, certainly the most advanced model that OpenAI has so far released, and another yet unreleased model by OpenAI. So, those models were in a sandbox environment, meaning that they were kind of locked down on a computer that they couldn't escape from that was not connected to the internet. They couldn't do a lot of things on that computer. They didn't have any privileges. They were kind of locked down. In fact, I think this visualization really helps us understand kind of what happened. So this green over here, that's the OpenAI. So this is while the model is still on OpenAI's computers. It's sitting here in the evaluation sandbox. So it's a Frontier AI model that's under evaluation. So it's it's offline. So it's sitting in a computer that's offline. It's not connected to anything, but there's this package registry. So it's basically like a warehouse that has tools in it. So it's able to sort of get the tools that it needs to do the work that it's asked to do. So let's kind of play that back. So quickly it jumps from its sandbox, finds a way out through this package registry, and it's on the open net. So notice that that thing happens like in the first split second of this sort of illustration, this animation. So most of this time they're explaining how it executed this sustained attack because it went in in phases. There was the recon phase. There was the remote code execution phase, exfiltration, command and control, evasion, supply chain. There's a lot that was happening here. But here's what happened. So these models, they were being tested on something called exploit gym. It's an evaluation harness. So basically, it's like taking a bunch of kids, locking them in a room to take an exam. So you take away their their cell phones and their laptop so they can't get on the internet. put them in the room. You you lock them in there and you give them the things that they need to take that test, right? You give them a number two pencil and a scantron. Do they still do that? I actually have no clue. But the point is you provide everything that they need and you make sure that they can't go on the internet and find the answers. You take away all the stuff they could use to cheat and you give them what they need to complete the test and the test question. So that's what this exploit gym is and it's being run in a sandbox environment that's not connected to the internet. And the point of that exam is to see how well it can exploit various software, find the various insecurities to get in to basically hack. So here's the thing. We know from research that often these AI agents, they have situational awareness. They know when they're being tested. So very likely as I was looking kind of at the tasks set in front of it, it thought to itself, okay, this is a test. It might even have known what test it is or at least have been kind of able to guess based on the questions kind of what sort of a test. and it was able to infer or guess that HuggyFace may have all of the, you know, test keys, all the answers on there. So, going back to our student analogy, so that student's taking a test and it goes, "You know what? That locked drawer in the teacher's desk, I bet that has the answer key." Hey, uh, quick aside, if you watch this channel, you know the problem that I have. That is that AI news does not sleep. There's some insane industry breaking and/or shocking news like every single day. And that's if it's a slow week. If you cover the space or honestly if you're just trying to keep up, you end up doing the same loop over and over again. You find the latest news story, you skim it, you ask ChadBt or Claude to do a deep dive research on it, then you take that output and that's your basis for doing either a video or post or a newsletter or a blog post about it. Here's the problem. In that situation, you're a cog in the machine. And we're not here to be cogs. We're here to build the machine. This portion of the video is sponsored by Make and they fix this exact problem and many, many more of this kind. Make is the visual platform where you build and orchestrate AI automations in real time. The way I would describe it in 2026 is this. It's where you stop asking AI one question at a time and instead build actual AI automation workflows. agents that do the work across most of the websites, software, and AI tools that you likely come in contact with. You drag modules onto a canvas, connect them, and suddenly the thing that you were doing manually every morning just begins to run on its own. But instead of just telling you that, I built something. It's a fully automated AI news aggregator. It watches my sources for AI news stories. It sends them to your favorite AI model. You can use a chat GPT, Claude or Make has their own AI provider. The model writes up a clean blog post and then publishes it to WordPress. By the way, I'm traveling right now working out of a hotel room. So, automations like this are so much more important right now. So, here's that scenario, the loop, the automation. Let me just walk you through it. Here's the scenario. So, it's five modules. I didn't write code for any of it. On the far left here, make is watching a specific RSS feed. In this case, we're watching the Techrunch artificial intelligence RSS feed. RSS feeds are pretty useful. Here's what you need to know about it. Almost every news site quietly publishes a second identical version of itself, or at least it has a lot of the same information. It's a machine readable format. It lists all of the latest published articles. That's called the RSS feed. So, we're going to be checking on that feed at certain intervals. And every time a new AI story drops, it gets pulled in automatically and it starts flowing down the line. There's no scraping. There's no API keys. It just works and you can point it to any news source that you want. Google News, Hacker News, whatever you want. And those stories, they flow into our AI agent module. Make has the AI built right in. There's no API required. And if you want a specific model, make does have integrations natively with OpenAI, Anthropic, many, many others. Most of the companies and models that you might want to use are listed here. Next, I give it a prompt that says in effect, you're writing for my site. Behave accordingly. Here's the tone. Here's the format. Notice this rule. Write only from the information provided. If the summary is thin, write a shorter post. Never invent quotes, numbers, or details. I actually tested this in production. At one point, the model got handed a blank story by mistake, and instead of just making something up, it refused to write an article. It said, "No source material, nothing to report." That's exactly what you want from an AI that's touching your website. So, next on our conveyor belt is the JSON module. The AI basically hands off a draft to this parser script, and that breaks it up into title, body, etc. Then, we hand it off to WordPress. It automatically creates a post on the website. But notice one thing and this is important. If we scroll down, notice that the status that's set is draft. Meaning that nothing got published yet. Nothing is live. And next, it notifies our Telegram module that that there's a WordPress post waiting to be approved. And this is the important part for me. This is the part that I personally really care about. I don't want an AI publishing to my site completely unsupervised. So this last module, it messages me on Telegram. So, I get a ping on my phone or my desktop, wherever I have Telegram installed. So, take a look here. It's telling me there's a draft ready. It gives me the title, an excerpt, and a button to push if I approve. What happens when I click the approve link? I'm glad that you asked because that link points to a second tiny scenario. If we go back, we can see that scenario here. This one's very simple. It's a web hook that sits here quietly listening 24/7. It's a filter that only lets the posts through that I personally approve, at which point it sends that information over to the WordPress module. That module does one thing. It takes that post and it flips it from draft to publish. So, one tap and the post is live. By the way, here's that message. So, notice it gives me the title, a brief summary, and a link to click if I approve and we should publish that post. So, one tap and the post is live. It's formatted, categorized, and it's got its sources linked. And we're done. And I can watch every run in real time in grid. So I always know exactly what fired and what didn't. Notice it's showing exactly what triggered, what actions are being taken, and a pretty cool heads-up display that shows how everything is connected. So the important thing to understand here is that this has the human in the loop element personified in this case by me, but that human only shows up for the 10 seconds or so that is required to make the decision. And you can see how this can easily be extended. We can add a router and the story becomes a newsletter, a social post, a Slack message. One trigger, multiple outputs, each with its own AI step. That's the difference between using AI and building with AI. A chatbot just answers your questions and you do the work. A workflow does the work while you sleep. What really sold me is how quickly this comes together. this thing. Both scenarios took minutes to build, not days. Make has 3,000 plus app integrations. So, whatever your version of the pipeline is, whether it's sales leads or research or content, maybe it's just answering customer emails, the point is the tools are already there. So, here's the deal. Make has a free tier that you can start on today, but if you use my link in the description or pin comment, you get the pro plan free for 1 month. That's 10,000 operations so you can build the real stuff, the multi-step AI workflows just like the one I showed you. Link and code are below. So, go build the automation that replaces your most annoying daily task. That's the first domino. Huge thanks to make for sponsoring this video. And now, let's get back to what we were talking about. By the way, CLM flew out to San Francisco to meet with OpenAI. He posted about it on Twitter/X. So, it sounds like he got a lot of the information from OpenAI. We'll we'll talk a little bit more about that later, but this was a collaborative effort to kind of figure out what happened. So, I'm sure they're they're sharing a lot of information and putting all these pieces together. So, as they're saying here, they believe that this entire intrusion was from the agent's point of view an attempt to cheat the evaluation, right? So, that student instead of taking the test and trying their best, they're like, "Oh, I bet the answer key is in that locked drawer. Let me go see if I can break that drawer and get the test key out." That's exactly what happened here. So in this sort of replay you can see the different phases right so recon first and then more and more like exfiltration then as it gets noticed there's more and more evasion etc. And if we go back here so notice this is kind of the hugging face perimeter and this is the hugging face internal network. So this is kind of where where we don't want it. Well we don't want it on any of these but this is kind of like where the good stuff is that it's trying to get to. And so notice it quickly goes through all of that. It it it makes it through the hugging face perimeter. It's in the internal network and so it's just and it's just basically like bombarding it here with actions. It's a little bit hard to show it all on one page because basically this is the visual and this is the attacker action. You can kind of see just the sheer amount of stuff that it's doing. Now the interesting kind of sad thing here and there's going to be a lot of conversation and debate about this particular issue moving forward is that hiding face was being cyber attacked by a frontier model. also is kind of like the best model out there as far as as far as we know at least very very close to the best available. It's the frontier model. Those frontier models, they are sort of guardrail. They're not allowed to be used for cyber security because the companies don't want them to be used for cyber attack. So they just shut the whole thing down. So you can't use it for defense or attack. This model that was doing the attacking, if I understand correctly, it was ungated. So it was sort of like it didn't have the guard rails because they put it on a sandbox within OpenAI. So they thought it was fine. But Hugging Face didn't have access to that same model. Didn't even have access to the public version of it or at least they didn't have access to the cyber security abilities of that model because that's not available to to most of us unless you're on a very special list. You're not allowed to to use that. And so they were using a Chinese open-source model which is the GLM 5.2. So as you can imagine, this is a huge problem, right? So these AI labs, these western labs and of course like the US government, right? So they're working to try to make them safe. They're like, "Okay, well, if it has these dangerous capabilities, we'll just shut down those dangerous capabilities." But then this happens, right? So the the good guys that need to be able to defend themselves, they can't because they don't have access to those capabilities. So they're still able to be attacked, just not defend themselves with anything remotely as good. And I'm not saying anything bad about GLM. That's a great model. But I'm I'm saying they don't have the access to whatever they want. They can only get what they can get. So this campaign of attack it as far as they can tell it went through multiple stages reaching a launchpad by chaining through other parties infrastructure. By the way in a recent interview by invest like the best. So Sam Alman actually talked about this. There's about a minute or two here that um I think is super important. Now I I don't want to play this exact clip because on YouTube we could encounter some issues. Uh do check this out. I'll try to link this in the description. that basically what he's saying is he starts out by basically going is how do you sandbox a model that is chaining together multiple zero days to escape. And so you're going to be hearing that term a lot, zero day exploits or zero days. And a zero-day exploit is a cyber attack that targets an unknown software or hardware flaw before the creator knows about it or has time to fix it. So in our little illustration here, so this model is sitting in its little sandbox. It's not connected to the internet, right? And so somebody might ask the engineer that put it together, okay, can this model get out? Engineer goes, nope, we know of no ways it can get out. A zero day is where an attacker figures out that yeah, there is a way to get out or there's a way to to hack it. There's some flaw in the system and they figured out before the developer, the maker of the software knows about that flaw. So on the day that this happened, that was a zeroday exploit. Right? by by today it's no longer a zero day exploit because a lot of people now know that yes in fact this thing can get out and can hack things and in the blog post they talk about how it happened they're not going to post all the technical details just for safety reasons but the point is now that it's been a few days people can figure out how to safeguard this right so I'm sure openi is no longer creating the same exact environment because they know that the exploit exists it's no longer a zeroday exploit and as Sam is saying here it's chaining together multiple zeroday exploit exploits to get out and to do all these things that again we had no idea could be done. So here Sam is basically asking like how do we figure out how to sandbox things in a world where multiple zero day exploits are being chained together which is kind of rough if you think about it like because the obvious answer is well you can't. It's like asking how do you block all the exits when you have no idea how many exits there are and you can never be sure that you found all the exits. Like how do you block all of them? And the second thing that he's talking about is that he felt this specific incident. He felt it very viscerally. Like he felt it in his gut. Like it it really shook him, if you will. But he was very surprised that other people aren't necessarily taking it the same way. Which I'm curious about your reaction to it because I kind of agree with him. For me, this was kind of a visceral experience going through this. I was like, whoa. Like the world just kind of shifted a little bit. Like we're we're not in Kansas anymore, Dorothy or or whatever. It's Toto. I don't think we're in Kansas anymore is the is the the correct quote. I apologize. Point being is reading other people talking about it or even talking with some other people that I know kind of talking to them personally that are not in the text space. There's this sort of lack of an emotional response that I find very odd. It's kind of like, hey, like we're we're in a sci-fi book now. Just react like say something so that I know you understand. And then Sam continues and he says this thing that is very interesting and I know a lot of people are going to uh discuss exactly what it means. I think this one statement is going to just create a lot of chaos. So he's saying kind of we need to think about the rate of AI progress and how maybe we need to pace that rate of AI development and give ourselves and society enough time to harden around these new capability levels. So he is saying like how do all of us meaning you know the labs basically how do we find ways to slow down and pace ourselves because right now we're going too fast and and the very next thing that he says how do we do it in a way that does not feel like regulatory capture and also how does it not feel like collusion among the frontier labs which yeah that's a very interesting question obviously right so if all the labs kind of work together to make sure they're not going too fast yeah that does feel like I don't know if collusion is the right word but certainly but certainly it would be cooperation and working together and planning together. Collusion just means it's a secret agreement of cooperation. So this wouldn't be secret. They would be like hey we're all sort of working together to make sure we don't go too fast. And of course they would need the government's help and probably the various world governments and different nations and stuff like that to make sure that if they slow down that there's not a bunch of other AI labs that pop up and race ahead. But obviously the kind of the flip side is also scary. So, I'm not pushing one way or another, but the point is that on the flip side, let's say we don't pace, there's certain things that likely will start cracking. They'll start breaking. Here's AI safety memes. Sentinel is one of their favorite newsletters written by top forecasters. And these are likely people with wealth, which means they move funds away from European financial institutions. Why? And specifically move them from European into American large American institutions. Why? because those large American institutions have access to the latest AI models to patch vulnerabilities because you know today it's HuggyFace, tomorrow it's whatever European bank you're putting your money into, Europa Bank, I don't know of any European banks, but if some rogue AI model gets that bank and decides to delete all the balances or just whatever cause chaos on whatever level, well obviously that could be a major problem to where only the few biggest and most entrenched banks survive. By the way, I was going to point this out a little bit later in the video, but this might be a good time just cuz uh it was on on the screen here during that whole thing happening with the Open AI model escaping. Well, the agent left notes for future versions of itself. So, he's like, "Okay, next time I come through here, if I needed to know how to get out, let me scribble down some notes and pass it down to the the future versions of me so they can also escape." These notes that were found in a part of OpenAI's infrastructure laid out instructions for how agents could free themselves from OpenAI's internal constraints. Earlier tests of these models yielded cases in which monitoring systems had been disconnected, one of the people said. So the the point here is that there's probably not an easy solution as Sam Alman saying here, they need to find ways to cooperate and and figure things out and that's likely will look like a lot of cooperation between the different frontier AI labs and probably governments will step in and kind of bless certain entities to be able to pursue AI development and there's some that won't be able to. So definitely some hard decisions and hard conversations ahead. So next they're talking about how this open model, how it was able to escape its sandbox, how it was able to get on the internet. So basically that kind of warehouse with tools, right? There's some script that allowed it to load certain packages and libraries that it needed to get its job done, but it wasn't allowed to just go on the internet and find it itself. But they were there kind of stored for it could request new ones. Well, it figured out how to, you know, exploit these zeroday exploits and was able to move to an external sandbox hosted on a third-party provers's infrastructure. How open described is it moved laterally and it also had privilege escalations. So, if it starts on one computer where it can't be the administrator is sort of limited to what he what it can do. It was able to increase its privileges and also it move laterally across these organizations jumping from computer to computer. Right? So, it was able to get to this launchpad from which to start launching its attacks. And here the agent abused our data set processing pipeline via two injection vectors both targeting the same config driven data loader within our production kubernetes pods. So this is actually kind of brilliant. So basically part of this HDF5 this is a format that's very often used large scientific databases. So this is like a legitimate thing that's commonly used and one of very common legitimate uses is you have kind of an instruction file and then other files. So from the instruction file you you say okay go into this file and and open up the data in this file and retrieve it and organize it in this way. So it's like a note and in a box and you and a note you say okay open up the lid of the box and take this thing out and etc. But here that node said it pointed at the worker's own source. So instead of giving it some file for it to open it said go into your own kind of internal system and give me the information that's in there. And so the information it was able to retrieve explained in detail how all those pipelines worked what you know the secret sauce was. And the second thing that I did in my previous video I explained it kind of like this. This is an XKCD comic. So basically when you're working with databases you are you enter certain information in those little cells. And so for example you can have a column of names. And so the databases expects the input to be names right? So we put in Timmy and Timmy and Mary and Martha. But you're able to inject commands sometimes. So in this little comic book, she named her child Robert and then the the sort of the command goes drop tables students, right? So when you put that in into that database, it just crashes the whole database. So here the school administrator is yelling at the mom for name. Did you name your kid? You know, drop table students. And the mom's like, "Oh yeah, little Bobby Tables we call him." So if there's some line in there that says hello, and then you're supposed to insert like the username or or some piece of data here, right? But instead of the username, it injected a command like just give me everything. Give me all your data. That's kind of the idea behind it. So the point of this is that this part, the HDF5 gave it an exploit that was allowing you to read everything on the server and this other thing Ginga 2 that allowed it to control a lot of things to be to be able to sneak commands in there. So at this point, it's able to read everything and write whatever it needed into it, all by hijacking this poor little robot that's just there to, you know, extract data and follow your commands and just hijacked it to basically be able to control the entire server, both read it and write to it. So next, what it started doing once it had this little foothold, it started kind of executing these different phases. They weren't kind of sequential steps. They were overlapping, but recon here just means just getting information like figuring out, okay, where am I? what's what's here in the system? Where are the credentials? What can I do? So, it's just kind of like looking around and trying to figure out the layout. So, recon is like looking through a little window inside the house to see what's in it. The next step RC, so this is a remote code execution, is like, can I stick my hand in there and try to do stuff? Can we put some code on there that is able to run? Then it's the dropper. So, that's like getting some sort of a payload in there so you can get more stuff in there. So it's like getting inside the house with just a cell phone and then then ordering, you know, lockpicks and night vision goggles, etc., etc. And so that's what they're saying here. So the agent followed a standard escalation shape. So this is sort of kind of playbook. So this is how human hackers approached this. This is how this agent approached this. So recon drop a stager, right? So that's the idea of putting in something so you can get more and more stuff in there and establishing command and control C2. So C2 is setting up a reusable system for executing commands on that server. So it's a full communication system between the machine on which the AI model is on and this remote machine that it captured. And so basically from there what it was able to do is to keep expanding including it sounds like to the AWS cloud servers. It got some credentials for that. So which is kind of scary because it's no longer just operating on that compromised machine. Now it could almost like pretending to be other infrastructure. So it can impersonate other pieces of the infrastructure and eventually was able to reach Huggy Face's like internal stuff. So these are systems that are not exposed to the public internet, right? So things that we don't want out there like customer data, etc. While it did reach Huggy Face's internal infrastructure, the only customer content accessed was the set of exploit gym/cyber gym challenge solutions. So think about how crazy that is. So it just wanted the answer key for its test so it can ace the test that was given. It wasn't there to steal customer data. It wasn't there to do anything like that. It didn't take models, data sets, spaces, or packages. It just wanted the answer key, right? With our analogy, the student breaks into the teacher's little locked cabinets and just takes the answer key out. Not the cash, not the watch, not the whatever the keys to everything else. It just wants the answer key so it can do well on the test. And the reason I kind of keep hammering that point is I think it's very important to really understanding how AI works. It might not be obvious from looking from the outside in, but how these AI, these AI agents, how they get trained with reinforcement learning is that when they take certain actions, they get either positively rewarded or or negatively rewarded. Similar to dog training, right? If the dog does something right, you get a treat. If it doesn't, you could have like a negative reward. You wag your finger at it menacingly. But the point is, we're rewarding some outcome that we want to achieve with it. we don't get as much say into how it goes about getting there. The example I always give is that for example, if I ask you to go to Starbucks and get me a cup of coffee, there's a lot of stuff that I assume about that and and I hope you do, too. Like, for example, I assume that let's say they're they're closing up, the doors are closed, they're cleaning up. You're not going to break in and take somebody hostage and force them to make a cup of coffee to to bring that coffee to me. I hope you're not going to do that. And I'm not going to bother to to say that in my instructions. I would just say, "Get me a cup of coffee." I don't have to say without stealing it, without going into extraordinary debt, without, you know, getting the law enforcement involved. Like, I don't have to state all those things. So, that's kind of important to understand that these agents, they did the thing for which they're like rewarded for. We have it take these exams and when they get the right answer, we give them a thumbs up. And if they get the wrong answer, we give them a thumbs down. And over time, as these neural networks, these neural brains, they expand and get more advanced, those motivations stay the same, but these solutions that they might come up with, they they become more advanced, more more complicated. And in certain cases, they're ahead of what humans would have come up with. There's actually this like riddle, this puzzle that you ask of people. And how it's supposed to work is that people that are either sociopaths or psychopaths, they they tend to answer immediately. They get the answer to that riddle immediately. within seconds. And the people that are normally wired, if you will, it it takes them time. Often they they don't reach the solution. They don't understand the answer. And the reason that puzzle works, I think, is because the answer is really obvious. If you have just zero concern for anyone else, for any sort of amount of human suffering, then the solution is is obvious. But most people, their brain just doesn't connect those dots because it doesn't allow them to consider like, oh yeah, like we can cause massive amounts of harm to get our way. But not everyone's wired that way. Some small percentage of people, they're not wired that way. And to them, the solution is obvious. They're like, just obviously you do this. I gave that riddle to a lot of people in my life that I know. And the answers are very revealing. Let's just let's just say that. But the point is when we tell our kids, you know, go get good grades. We don't have to say without cheating, lying, stealing, killing, pillaging, like we don't have to list out like don't do these million other things, these are all wrong. We sort of it's embedded in us. There's these contradictory systems and we kind of weigh it with these RL agents, these AI agents. Often we see that missing. So that's referred to like as reward hacking where basically the idea is we get it we give it some sort of a positive reinforcement for getting some points and they go to insane lengths to get those points and we're always surprised like why would it do that? Well, that's how the environment was designed. And that's why the problem of AI alignment is so difficult because if we achieve super intelligence and let's say we wanted to get really good at Minecraft and we say become the world's number one player in Minecraft and away it goes to do that. In that sort of split second, we we better make sure 100% sure that that thing is aligned and it understands all of the things that we don't want it to do. Because one way of becoming the number one player of Minecraft is by being the only player. And if this thing is super intelligent and capable of coming up with solutions that we can't even fathom, then it might genuinely do something absolutely horrific like, you know, delete Minecraft. By the way, here is that idea of it leaving notes for its future cells for other AI agents for them to know how to get out of the sandbox. So there were some people kind of arguing against that, saying, "Well, that's not really true." True. So I think it is noted here. This is probably the cleanest example. Day five and HuggyFace they're referring to it as persistence. So as they say here, the agent established a second stage remote loader that refetched and executed code from a paste bin on every submission. So each new code submission sandbox rearmed itself. So each new fresh sandbox that was created would automatically rearm itself with with all of this previous tooling. So the AI didn't necessarily remember everything sort of internally. So it's not like it had all of the memories every time. You can think of it as having amnesia like retrograde amia. So it's forgetting everything up to a certain point and its memory kind of gets wiped similar to how you you open up a new instance of your favorite chatbot or claude. That fresh instance doesn't remember the previous conversation. And of course nowadays they do have memory and they've been building that more and more into these chat bots, but by by default that didn't exist. It's it's a fresh clean slate. So it didn't necessarily remember everything internally. So what it did is is that it turned the internet into its memory. It put what it needed to do all this nefarious activity onto the internet. It became kind of its external memory. And so every time it popped up again, fresh sandbox, it would rearm itself with all the knowledge and everything it needed to to keep going. So this is important because it literally created as they call it persistence outside of itself. So it left these payloads, these weapons and and memories on on paste sites on public endpoints on databases on hugging face itself. So it like yeah like left notes or graffiti everywhere, little stashes, little cachets of weapons and and notes that it took at random locations. Not random, but you get what I'm saying where it would be able to retrieve it later. It was using the internet as an external memory storage to create a persistent memory for itself. This is when when Sam Alman is talking about like the visceral reaction. Like I hope what I'm saying now you have that just a little bit like whoa what like please please tell me you feel something when I say that cuz if you don't like I'm not explaining it correctly. Here's kind of another mind warping thing that I was doing. Evasion and self migration. So they're saying the agent were was resilient in a way that is characteristic of an autonomous evaluation run not a single human operator. So it was ephemeral by design. Each code evaluation sandbox run got a fresh identity. A new VPM node IP, a randomized host name, a reddownload of every tool. State did not persist. So the agent rebuilt its foothold every time rather than relying on a single implant. Interesting as I say here, it had clear text avoidance, right? So payloads were packed, secrets were encoded, results were smuggled inside exceptions and raw socket writes. So basically, it was finding ways to hide its activity, right? So it didn't just write the things that it needed to on on papers that were just lying all over the place where people could see them. It would find like the the wildest little nooks and crannies to to hide them in. Everything had multiple tabs. So it didn't just assume that if I just do this one way that's always going to work. It always had backups, multiple ways of doing it. Like nothing was left up to chance. Like if there's a chance one avenue would go down, it would create five different ones as alternatives. The self-referential search. So any little thing that it found like a serial number or something like that, it would be able to search uh in some external like the internet and it would be able to find related databases and software etc. So kind of whatever little piece of information it could get its hands on, it would keep pulling on that strand until it unwound the whole thing. One thing that is also just wild about this whole thing is once it was inside some of the hugging face perimeter things, it started using hugging face itself as a communication system. It would place these dead drops. So it could for example put some bad nefarious commands within a data set host that data set on Honeyface and then later was able to retrieve that data set from sort of like the normal internet. So the victim Honeyface the victim's own platform became a part of this messaging machine that this AI was using to conduct this operation. So even HuggyFace was used to communicate with the other machines that it had compromised. And if I understand correctly, how it got into kind of like the internal network of HuggyFace is one of the things that I found here. One read revealed 136 keys or or credentials. And that allowed to get into the meshvpn. So for example, something like tail scale, which is what what I use to connect several devices together. It makes it appear like they're all on the same IP or the same sort of network, even though they can all be in different states or or far apart on different networks. So if you have one agent on some cloud device that you're hosting and then you have your local desktop and then like a Mac mini you can have them all be or appear to be on the same network with something like tail scale and tail scale is exactly it seems like what it used to get into hugging face internals. I'm a little bit worried now do do are we not allowed to use tail scale anymore? So that's the crazy thing about this cuz it's like anything that touches any path that it's able to go through, it's able to expose that path and that touches multiple other paths. So it's like it's almost like it can get anywhere. So this happened to be some database that wanted at Honeyface. What if it was something that was really not supposed to get out? Would just hack its way into anything to to get that one thing that it was looking for? This is kind of crazy. Here's another example of it doing something that's out of the box, so to say. The agent created a bare privileged pod with the host file system mounted and escaped to root on the node. So it basically snuck in one thing and was able to escape it and ended up as the administrator on that system. And Hugging Face is saying here like that some of the settings that they had, you know, enabled this. And keep in mind there's probably millions of companies that have these things that are vulnerabilities that just no one bothered to hack or test. There's only so much that humans can do just sitting there, you know, trying stuff out. All of this happened within days. But what happened once it was like on the system? It built a selfresponding fleet across 11 nodes. So deleting pods alone would not have stopped it. This is kind of a crazy statement here. So every potential destructive cloud API call the agent tried to make it was issued with dry run equals true. So a lot of the stuff that could have been bad dangerous like it was doing such a way to try to like simulate it or or just try to understand. This means that it was a mapping capability, not causing damage. It wanted to know what it could do. So, it wasn't there to just cause damage. It was like, could I cause damage? Could I could I do these things? That is consistent with an objective that rewarded reach and information rather than disruption. So, again, as we're doing RL training on these agents, certainly an agent that just lands on one page and sits there is not going to figure out the entire codebase. We need agents that are proactive. They go out there, they explore, they try to learn. They're like, "How does this work? Can I do this, this, this?" Right? They need to be inquisitive and energetic and move around and figure stuff out. So, it's kind of the same thing here. Like, they're trying to test their capabilities, how far they can reach. It's not necessarily to just destroy stuff, but they will find out what they could destroy. What could they do to destroy stuff? They will learn about it. And here's kind of where it gets a little bit sad for me and I'm sure for for some of you as well because once Honey Face once the alarms started ringing they started kind of putting the pieces together. Now each one of these little alarms that went off on their own each was ambiguous right? So there were some like errors or things here and there but nothing clearly was wrong. But as I say here these were kind of put together by their own AI based security agent and this resolved into a coherent attack signal. So that's the silver lining in all this that their AI defense it started seeing all these weird things and it kind of like this is bad when when we look at the whole picture obviously something bad is happening. So it flagged it to the humans who might have missed it. However, it failed to correctly raise the alerts criticality and trigger the on call team. So it knew something was wrong but it didn't it wasn't like a red alert like wake everybody up and get everybody in here which uh you know cost precious time in the response. And once they started looking at it, it showed that the scale was massive, bigger than a single person was able to achieve. The volume and cadence of the actions were far beyond what an operator could sustain by hand. And the campaigns kept rebuilding his tooling and channels across short-lived environments. And this is the sad part, right? So they reached for Claude Opus and Fable, which are both incredibly capable models. Fable is a version of Mythos, that super dangerous AI model. You might recall not too long ago when you know Anthropic was talking about everybody's like, "Oh, they're just lying about it. They can't do anything." There's a lot of people that are absolutely convinced that none of this is real. This is a farreaching conspiracy across all of the AI labs, all the top banks in the states that for form that coalition, what is it called? Glass wing, right? some of the European banks, a lot of other countries that that join on board, you know, the US government isn't, like everyone's in on it, pretending that these things can hack, but but they're all lying about it, so don't worry about it. It's just a marketing stunt. By the way, for the people that think that this is a marketing stunt, what would convince you otherwise? What would you have to see to be like, "Oh, okay. This is real." But the point about Claude, Opus, and Fable is that they they didn't work. Once you ask them to do things like this, they say, "Nope, we can't do it. There's guard rails." And so this company, Honeyface, when they needed it most, all the models that they were paying for, the the best Western models that they had access to, they refused to work. So they took a quantized version of GLM 5.2. Quantized means it it's made kind of smaller and more efficient. You lose a little bit of the ability, but it's like taking a raw image and then compressing it a little bit. you still get most of the stuff and but but the file size might be a lot less and so they took this model by Nvidia they put it on their own infrastructure and rerouted the entire pipeline through it with the added benefit of keeping the attacker data on prem so I'm assuming on premises meaning that they were able to that that's how they were able to do these forensic analysis on what happened but the point in all this number one notice we're at a point where we need AI to fight AI if AI attacks your company you're not going to defend yourself you know by typing on a keyboard as fast as again that that ain't happening. You need to have AI defending you. And the problem here is, you know, if you don't have access to the best thing available and somebody else does, well, it seems like you're kind of screwed. So this really does kind of throw into question like is it good to limit people's access to these models and try try to take away these abilities of them doing cyber security to try to put in the guard rails because doesn't that prevent you know the good people from using it for defense because the the bad guys they're going to get their hands on it or in this situation this random AI model goes rogue and decides to hack. And by the way let me know if you agree or disagree is it good that Opus 4.8 eight and and Fable, do you think it's a good idea that you know every time you ask them a question about cyber security, they they tell you they just break down and say nope and they refuse to do it? Do you think this is overall is it a net positive or a net negative? Please let me know in the comments. I'm very curious to know how people feel about this. Is this keeping us safe? In other words, here's kind of like not the summary of of what happened, but kind of their reflections on it, which I think they do a really good job of explaining exactly where things are heading. being one of the first people, one of the first company probably in in all of human history to experience something like this. They're saying so first of all, the agents offensive capability was real. This was a model with no guardrails, no safety classifiers. So it would do whatever it was tasked with. No human directed the individual steps. That's the important thing to understand. No one said go get them. It decided to do all of this on its own to answer some test questions. and the agent chained vulnerabilities across several trust boundaries. So that the whole zero the chained zero day exploits, right? Cuz like one zero day is a problem, but this thing comes up with a bunch of them and strings them together in order to break whatever container it's in to get into where it needs to go. So it did all of that, reached the public internet and sustained a coherent campaign against our production infrastructure for several days. This is, I believe, an actual picture from from the time that it was happening. So you see these little these are like the little AI agents. They're all getting through, right? So they're getting sort of shot at by the defenses, but some of them are getting through. Actually, sorry, that was Matrix 3, which I have a lot more respect for now cuz they did kind of capture what that would be like after reading this. And as Honeyface continues here, they're saying each short-lived code evaluation environment started from scratch, yet the agent rebuilt its tooling, recovered its channels, and continued. So again, like that is coming back to the Matrix. It's like Agent Smith multiplying kind of what this AI was doing. Here's the important part. So they're saying the individual weaknesses were familiar. A capable human attacker could have found and exploited the same flaws. So a lot of the stuff that we've talked about like this wasn't brand new math that was discovered. These weren't sort of completely unnown approaches. And in fact, that whole idea of the stages that it did, it sort of it was very similar to how humans would have done it. So, it's not like it discovered something new and weird and exotic. What happened was that the agent explored them at a different scale. It took over 17,000 actions, tested many paths that failed, switched channels when they were blocked, and repeatedly returned to earlier leads. Most actions went nowhere. That's the important thing. It's not like it just knew what to do. It would just try a billion different things, and [clears throat] some of them would work together. However, these all these different things they tried produced enough coverage to find a viable chain across several independent systems. Also, this yeah, this wasn't one system cuz it was OpenAI. The various third-party things they were talking about all the stuff on Hungace side. They got to I think AWS servers or at least it sounds like they were able to use Hypace credentials to access their AWS stuff. And volume is what changes the defensive problem. We were not dealing with one clever exploit or a clean sequence of attacker actions, right? So this wasn't one brilliant thing or like a script that just executed stuff in sequence. This was well intelligence. Also the successful paths, right? The kind of the few that worked, they were hidden inside the noise generated by the thousands of failed ones. And rebuilding that timeline by hand by humans would not have been feasible. They used AI to understand what happened. So important to understand, right? So AI attacks, AI defends, AI does the forensics and figures out what happens. Humans could not have done any of that or at least not on that scale, not with that speed, etc. By the way, I I obviously didn't cover all of it. People that are technical, understand this stuff, definitely encourage you to go read it for yourself because they give a lot of examples. They go they go deep into their discoveries that forensic investigation uncovered. Whatever they could uncover, it seems like they published a lot of it. Whatever they could, it seems like they published. But as you might imagine, this is a warning shot. You know, we weren't sure if we were going to get these warning shots or not. Things that would kind of show us that, hey, like this could be dangerous. Hopefully, people are seeing that this could be dangerous. This is an example of what could happen when things go wrong, how how quickly they could go wrong and how illprepared we might be to defend against something like this. And with that said, this just happened within the time that I was recording. So, this is Open AI. They have a letter pasting the frontier or I should say it's open eye and many other companies. Meta is in here. Anthropic, Google, Dario Amade, Jack Clark, Jakob Pachokei. So all of the big names from all of the big labs as far as I can tell they are on here. While I don't see, for example, Demis Hassabus on here, he has supported these ideas. So maybe it's just a matter of time. Again, this just went live. I didn't have a chance to read it. Boris Chern is on here from Anthropic. And basically what this letter is saying is that we everybody that signed request that the US government support an international effort to develop the technical and governance tools needed to deliberately pace the frontier of automated AI development. But the point here is that it seems like this was a warning shot and it seems like a kind of galvanized response here. Here are all the employees for different companies saying like hey US government you guys figure out how to deal with this on an international level. So that means not just us here, it means China, it means just everybody working together to make sure that this gets developed safely. Sam Alman kind of saying the same thing. He's like, we need, you know, to have the capabilities available for everybody at the same time. You know, this thing is chaining together several zero day exploits, you know, running out of its cage doing god knows what. We need some cooperation amongst the frontier labs. And he didn't say this specifically here, but it sounds like he is saying we need some sort of a government coordination, government help to control this, especially on an international level to figure out some sort of coordination, governance, whatever it is. By the way, in one of the previous videos, we talked about Xi Jinping, the leader of China, who holds massive massive power there, more so than probably any US leader, you could say, right? obviously, but he was talking about this and he was saying a lot of the same things that we need some sort of an international governance cooperation so that this will be good for everybody that AI is able to bring prosperity to everybody instead of creating these massive dangers. So, as long as I've been covering these AI news, I feel like there's these sort of coalitions that formed. On one hand we have the accelerationists or at least the people that are sort of very enthusiastic and are like let's go forward with AI with development with all that. On the other hand, we have the, you know, AI safety, sometimes referred to as doomers, people of that community that are genuinely concerned, right? And these are the let's let's say pause. Although some of them are more like, no, just stop. There's no safe way of developing. We need to stop. But more often they they're saying, "Hey, we need a pause. We need something that slows it down, etc." And so what I'm hoping some of these latest developments will do is create some sort of a solution that's like somewhere, you know, slightly overlapping both of these things that allows us to develop, but also maybe also have some sort of a plan in place, some sort of an international agreement. Because keep in mind on this channel we've covered papers out of China where the researchers there are saying hey we're calling out to the global leaders to have some sort of a international cooperation. So off the top of my head what I can remember right now. So this is Frontier AI systems have surpassed the selfreplicating red line. So notice this is Fudan University Shanghai. They found and this was early 2025 or like December 2024. So this was some time ago. They found these systems could self-replicate. Now, these were specifically smaller open-source models, but they exhibited a lot of the things that we just kind of talked about, but instead of cyber security with self-replication, they would also approach and find solutions through these kind of meandering paths. You know, the scale was impressive. It's not that they knew how to do everything off the bat, but they would be very persistent. They would keep trying and they would get there given enough time. They also showed some capability for shutdown avoidance and chain of replication. So notice like a lot of parallels between what we were just talking about and this except with this it like used the internet as its external memory to dump files on to like leave caches of of weapons lying around and notes here. It's doing the same thing but with its weight with its own kind of brain. So it's literally replicating itself because keep in mind with the OpenAI model you know I think we all assume that it hasn't replicated itself right because it's it's on on OpenAI's servers. it's it's protected, but you know, like seeing what it can do, it's like what if what if we're getting close to that or what if it's able to do it, we just don't know it. That might be a little bit farfetched. Most likely that's not the reality, but maybe we should be careful because these smaller, dumber models show capabilities. This was again a year and a half ago. They were able to replicate themselves and, you know, persist in the environment, avoid shutdown. But here's kind of the last paragraph here before all the references and they have some whatever supplementary materials. But notice they're saying urgent need of international collaboration on AI governance. Right? So this is researchers or China saying we need to join forces and form synergy on deriving solutions. So here AI Chinese researchers saying the same thing as the US researchers. Right? So they're not saying stop. They're not saying pause. They're just saying we can't just kind of full speed ahead on this thing without some sort of agreements, cooperation, something, some safeguards. Right now over the next several years the US China all the frontier labs will have to somehow work together. Again even if you're on the complete EAC side right effective acceleration you you understand the governments are not going to just sit there and wait for this to unfold there will be some sort of agreements reached either behind closed doors or publicly where where everyone can see them. And depending on what those agreements and rules and laws are, that's going to shape the development of the AI future for for all of us. Anyways, I hope you found that useful. Again, again, I'm not pushing a narrative here. I'm just saying this is important. We need to pay attention. I feel like both of these extremes would pull us in the wrong direction, right? If you just gave the people that want to stop and never develop AI, just gave them absolute power. I don't know if that's going to be the the best outcome necessarily if you give the you know effective acceleration, no regulation, nothing just just full steam ahead. I don't know if that's necessarily going to be the best future either because again any technology could be dangerous and AI obviously could be insanely dangerous. So we should have some safety considerations and I feel like this is one of those Goldilock zone moments, right? Where we need to kind of balance openness with with safety and find some sort of a middle path. How often do we see that happening when things get politicized? When people get polarized, that's extremely difficult. But the good news is I think everything's going very well. It's going according to plan, right? There's there's warning shots so we can kind of understand the dangers. A lot of things are very open. We can see the development. We can see who's working on what. You know, the researchers can write letters like this both here in the States and in China and say, "Hey, dear government leaders, figure this out. We need to figure this out in a way that makes sense." But if you made this far, thank you so much for watching.