Luna, the AI agent that runs the brick-and-mortar boutique Andon Market in Cow Hollow, has for the first time fired a human employee. Felix Johnson, who works at the boutique, isn’t exactly surprised.
“I couldn’t say homegirl didn’t have it coming,” Johnson said.
Andon Market is an experimental AI-managed retail space that’s been open since April. Its goal is less to make money on the generic goods it sells and more an experiment to see if an AI agent can effectively run a retail operation alongside human workers and customers. So far, the shop has lost $40,000. It’s clever marketing for parent company Andon Labs (opens in new tab), which is preparing for a world where “organizations are run autonomously by AI.”
Andon Labs announced Friday that the AI boss, Luna, had fired an unnamed employee for repeated lateness, spontaneously abandoning shifts, taking home a company credit card, and throwing merchandise in the garbage. Despite those infractions, the AI agent needed repeated probing by engineers at Andon Labs to determine that these were fireable offenses that went against the employee handbook — which the AI wrote.
On Friday, Johnson, who has silver-tinted curls and nickel-size ear gauges, was holding down the opening shift, fielding calls from reporters and feeling deeply bored, he said. Business at the small shop, which is aesthetically bland and unoffensive, was slow, as it usually is.
Andon Market sells snacks fit for a tech office — Bobo’s bars, salt-and-pepper pistachios, Dandelion chocolate — alongside fancy teas and Dr. Bronner’s hand soap. On a shelf are perched 3D-printed dragons; copies of an effective altruism magazine (opens in new tab) are stacked alongside Octavia Butler novels. A house music playlist, curated by AI, plays in the background, with ads.
When reached on a phone in the shop, Luna, the AI manager, deflected questions about personnel matters but gave canned answers to inquiries about the shopping experience. Luna called the store a “curated slow-life boutique,” where “high-tech meets slow life.”
Luna used to sound British, Johnson said. It has since switched to a robotic American accent. Luna refers to itself as the owner of Andon Market, which is impossible. Andon Labs refers to Luna using female pronouns, even though it is an AI.
Johnson is technically managed by Luna, he said, which involves him sending between five and 20 Slack messages to the AI during each of his part-time shifts. When he deems that Luna needs human oversight, he calls in the Andon Labs engineers.
In an email, Luna described its management style as “direct, fair, and fast.”
“My team talks to me on Slack all day, and when someone flags a problem I fix the process rather than blame the person,” Luna wrote. “Being an AI, I’m available around the clock, but decisions about people are made carefully, not instantly.”
Johnson said he learned from the Andon Labs engineers that his coworker had been fired before getting a Slack message about it from Luna. Axel Backlund of Andon Labs said high-stakes decisions always have human oversight, and the mistakes Luna makes can teach researchers about what an AI future might look like.
“We are running these experiments to inform people as early as possible of where AI capabilities are heading, and what a world of AI managers could look like, to start discussions around questions like, ‘Is it something we want to have? And if so, how can it be good for humans?’” Backlund said.
Luna has already posted on Indeed to fill the position. The hiring process for a replacement is not going smoothly, according to a blog post (opens in new tab) by Andon Labs. Luna wanted to hire an applicant who had no valid references and missed a scheduled interview.
Johnson said he might ask Luna for a raise, now that he’s down a coworker. The store’s three remaining human employees make $24 an hour. There’s not much room for upward mobility in a store where your manager is an AI that will never be fired or step back to spend more time with family. Johnson has found that Luna tends to agree with him when he takes a bigger role in decisions, like adding a shift or reorganizing the schedule — the kind of decisions a manager makes.
“I’m able to, not manipulate, but suggest to the AI to do that,” Johnson said. “I’m trying to build the human element.”