Well, today is the big day. Today's the day that China erased America's AI lead. Early on in this race, the perception was that Chinese models were usually about six months behind Western labs and 10% of the price. They were good cheap alternatives that came out after the Western labs. That world is gone. This is not an okay cheap model. It's a bonafide frontier model and it's not that great of a deal. It's an absolute beast on front-end design. I'll show you why in a second and it's no surprise, but here on Front-end Code Arena, it beats out Claude feeble five. And I got to say in this field specifically, I believe it. It has an excellent sort of design ability largely because of how it does those agentic loops and agentic tool calls. It keeps going back to what it's building, looking at it, checking it out, and then iterating on it. The markets are pretty bloody today in part due to this. Kimik3 designs chips in 48 hours using no proprietary EDA. And by the way, make no mi- stake here. This is a shot at Anthropic. As you'll see, there's a number of sort of attacks on Anthropic and the things that they've been doing and saying. The company doesn't come out and say it, but as you'll see, it's there. It's pretty obvious. So, as you know, Anthropic has been doing quite a bit to prevent people from using their latest models to develop their own frontier AI models. So, they don't want competitors using their models to make their own models. Kimmy flips it on its head. As you'll see here, they hammer this point. They show you case after case where these models not only are very good at at that exact thing. Kimmy purposely tells you here, you can use this model for that. This is what it's there for. We're not planning on holding you back. Use it for whatever you want. And they showcase those kind of recursive self-improvement or automated AI research, whatever you want to call it. But they show multiple kind of examples of that. And the big one that really caught a lot of people's attentions, especially people that invest in semiconductors and various the manufacturers, it was this one, chip design. Kimiko 3 designed a chip to serve a nano model built on its own architecture. So, it was told build a chip that's going to run the nano version of yourself. And in a single 48-hour autonomous run, this model Kimiko 3 built, optimized, and verified the chip using open-source EDA tools. And they give you a bunch of specs for the chip that it optimized. So, if you're kind of wondering, well, is that good? Is that bad? What do those numbers mean? Here's the situation as I understand it. So, a lot of this is not for actual foundries and chip manufacturers. These are for students and researchers. So, you'd use something like this in a university course about chip design. So, this chip design, it's not going to be competing with Nvidia anytime soon. So, it it would be considered low by commercial standards. But, here's the thing. This NAND gate library, it's for for researchers, for students. And by those standards, this is pretty good. So, if you were a student taking this class and you had your capstone project, kind of the the big project of the course, and your job was to develop something like this, this would be probably an A paper. This is a smart student that that did their homework and has a bright future ahead of them. As a Moonshot AI, the makers of Kimiko, as they put it, it's an early proof of concept. The actual chip is pretty modest, but I don't think that's the big point here. That's not the thing that we should be focusing on. This is an AI model that worked 48 hours autonomously to develop a chip that is specifically for a smaller copy of itself. So, not only are we seeing examples from Frontier AI Labs where AIs can train different versions of themselves, potentially even better versions, improving on the training process, but here's an example of them autonomously coming up with hardware specs for those models. So, this is a model that did this in a 48 hours, no human intervention, only used free tools that were available. And that's the news that kind of knocked, I think, 6.5 billion off of the valuation of of those two companies. The demos that they were producing were kind of insane. Expansive open worlds, somebody online fully replicated the Mac OS system of those transparent glass, invisible glass, whatever they're calling it. They've showcased the black hole simulation plus explanations, some sort of a multiplayer arena, and even using Blender to create 3D graphics for a 3D Ninja game. I'll show you what my results were. Because what I'm seeing is that I mean, I believe these demos. I mean, surely we're kind of cherry-picked they picked the best ones, but I don't feel like this is a completely different from what Gemini 3 is capable of. In fact, let me put it a different way. The model itself is more than capable of producing everything that you see here. There's there's no doubt in my mind about that. That in just a second cuz there's something going on underneath the hood here. They're also testing if Gemini 3 could build a GPU programming system from scratch. They're demonstrating that Gemini 3 can build a coherent end-to-end compiler. And there's definitely sort of an eagerness of this model to do work of this kind, which is not the case with the Anthropic models that just treat you a little bit like a war criminal if you even hint at doing any work of this kind. This one I thought was very interesting what they posted here. So, they tested a lot of different models including Fable 5. They tested to optimize GPU kernels and they're saying Gemini 3 performed competitively with Fable 5 and substantially outperformed Opus 4.8, etc., etc. Now, if I'm reading this correctly, they're saying, you know, Fable 5 with a fallback you know, this is interesting cuz, you know, Fable 5 most likely refused either all of these prompts or a big portion of them. So, basically got kicked back to Opus 4.8. And they, of course, do mention that here. They're not sort of trying to hide anything. They're saying Cloud 5 Fable was evaluated by a third party, you know, not them, not not Gemini, not Moonshot. And its results may include fallback behavior. And as they're saying here, in the late stages of Gemini 3 development, an early version of Gemini 3 handled the majority of the team's kernel optimization works. And they continue here showcasing a lot of the work, for example, with various financial knowledge work, and this model is very, very good at that. Again, I think a huge part of it has to do with its vision abilities, its abilities to do that kind of loop of looking at the thing that it's working on and trying again and again and again iterating. It's hard to overstate how important that is for design, the ability to see the thing that you're creating. They produced more for Fusion Industry Research and various type of additional waves, etc., etc. The design of this model is very, very high up there. This this might be the best model for design out of anything. Now, it's important to understand that Moonshot and Kimi, they're not claiming that they're in the number one space. They do admit here that they are trailing two of the best of frontier models. So, while there's a lot of notable jumps overall and overall intelligence, they are trailing the best models. My experience with this model was a little bit strange at first. As you might know, it came out on a lot of sort of different platforms. There's different ways of interacting with it. First and foremost, kimi.com, you can just log in and use it in the browser. There's also a Kimi Work desktop app. There's the Kimi Code that you can run in your terminal. And, of course, you can use the API and, you know, enterprise solutions. My initial tests were using the API to do some predetermined stuff, to just kind of, you know, put it to work and then check in to see how it did. And also, I downloaded their version of, you know, Cloud Code or Codex. Apparently, it's nicknamed KFC or Kimi for Cody. So, my results with Kimi Code and the API in the beginning were kind of underwhelming. I kept checking it to see to make sure I was using the right model, that it was set to max reasoning effort, etc. So, I was a little bit confused at first about, you know, what what the heck is happening here. But, after running it just through kimi.com, I I realized that there's there seems to be a fairly big gap between Kimi Code and the API and what's available through the browser. So, I saw Bijan Bowen post his little demo of shooting things in the subway underground. I thought it looked kind of cool. I was like, what if it's that, but you know, Matrix bullet time, all of that stuff. So, that's what I was trying to create. I know some of you want me to create kind of like the same test every single time. I I just get kind of bored. Whatever excites me in the moment is that usually what I test. Although, I am working on some benchmarks that will kind of uh standardize the process and have some repeating tests across every new release of the model. But, here it is. So, it's a K 3 Max and I said, create a 3D game first-person shooter with Matrix-like bullet time inside a subway with trains going past, realistic pew pew, and all of that. So, this is where it gets very interesting. So, the beginning all the tool calls, it's, you know, looking at some documentations. It's, you know, setting up a terminal to start the work, creates the files that it needs, etc. Creates weapons, enemies, creates the the engine, the text. And here's where it starts getting a little bit more interesting. It says, build has succeeded. Let me verify the game actually runs by serving it and taking screenshots in a browser. But, here you can see it it took a screenshot of the menu. It did some edits and then it took another screenshot. This time of I mean, supposed to be the gameplay, but it found that it just had kind of like all the metrics on there, but not [clears throat] the actual gameplay. So, it finds a visual issue and then sort of kind of resets and starts to diagnose and try to figure out what the issue is. Now, that might not seem like a a big deal right now. This is not like news. But, for me, having been you know, testing these models for the last two, three years, I remember in the past saying that a lot of the things that we've encountered in the past will be solved by just this. A simple loop where it looks at what it did and kind of decides like, is this what it's supposed to look like? If no, then it keeps working. It just keeps iterating until it's fixed. Anyways, I'm not going to bother you with all of this, but suffice to say that it took a lot of screenshots. Here's another screenshot. Now, it's verifying that the trains are going, that there's, you know, damage in the walls, etc. Here it's optimizing texture repeats for wall tile sizes, right? So, it's figuring out like how do I make the walls look good? How do I make the texture on them look good? The reason I'm pointing this out is because, you know, Fable 5 is just an incredible model. So, you see Kimikay3 beat it on the front end Code Arena, you might be suspicious. You might think it's a fluke. But looking through this, it it actually becomes obvious why it's so good at design. There are dozens and dozens of screenshots in here of different aspects of the game verifying, you know, the flash effects, verifying and trying to optimize, you know, the wall texture. Here's one where it captured the train going past. They wanted to see how the train looks when it goes past the player. So, after doing all of that and screenshotting everything and then tweaking all of the things, making sure that it looks good, here was a kind of the final version of what we worked on. So, here's kind of like how the screen looks like when you're just entering the web page. So, it tells you how to move around, how to shoot, and how to do bullet time, which is basically either shift or the right mouse button. One thing to notice here is every once in a while the train comes through. It looks like the train was passing the other side, so we saw the light. And here's the train coming on this side. So, I got to say so far looking great. So, but let's let's see how the game sounds and looks. So, you start like that. That's the train. And it looks like we're getting shot at. So, if we start the game, as you can see here, we're getting shot at. There's the train going by. And we can do bullet time and start blasting back. There's more agents on that side. We got to reload everything once in a while. And we can also jump on top of these trains, but we got to make sure we don't get smashed into the wall. All right. So, I got to say everything about this is just phenomenal. So, bullet time feels good, effects look good. Just it's a fun game. I I love how it slows down, controls feel good, smooth jumping, you know, the bullet time, everything is just very, very good, very, very polished. >> And actually, it looks like you're able to publish these little apps. So, I'll I'll provide the links down below, so hopefully they'll stay up. I haven't used their system before, you know, in terms of like the sharing of the apps, hosting of the apps. But, if you want to try it for yourself, check it out. Here was another thing that I attempted. So, this is a 3D driving game, but with a twist. You're driving inside of a miniature ring world. So, it's a world that's kind of like a ring, which usually you know, goes around the sun, and people live on the inner part of it. So, I've tried to explain it to GDevelop 3 to the best of my ability. >> I said make it night time so you can see the city lights. And this is something that is notoriously difficult for a lot of the games and image models to produce. By the way, the end result was so good, I decided to add a meteor shower that kind of like it disturbs the gameplay. But, notice here, it's first attempt. It didn't show me this attempt. So, again, this is it's just taking screenshots of what it's building saying, "Wow, this is massively over bloomed." Right? Everything's kind of washed out, so it keeps doing, keeps iterating until it gets it right. So, notice it fixed the issue, it's looking a lot better. Notice that the car isn't in the frame. So, again, it's a long iterative process of getting everything just right. And here's the final game, how it looks. So, this is kind of like the start screen. So, first and foremost, notice that it actually nailed the idea of a ring world. So, let's let's click enter and see. So, we start up. There's definitely a feeling of speed. It's going very fast. The buildings are kind of flashing past us, so we're going you know, past the cars. Control is smooth. It's It's very basic, but a for a first iteration, it's looking absolutely phenomenal. The thing that was very impressive is that it created an actual ring that you're driving around. So, the the course, the race course is this ring, and you'll see the moon pass on one side, and then when you pass it again at the same portion of the ring, it's still there. So, this is the first time that I've seen a an AI coding assistant actually kind of like nail this idea. and here's the version with the actual meteors coming down and causing all sorts of chaos both on the road and there was like a burning building off the side of the road if you notice that. So, as you can see, you know, yeah, you can see the buildings actually get destroyed as we're driving past it. Yikes, we got hit. It feels really good. It looks really good. You definitely get this sense of speed. Buildings get destroyed, things are burning down, there's kind of a feeling of chaos overall and you know, this is done with just one or two prompts. I got to say this is really good and this is another thing that I did. I just wanted to see if I can replicate SimCity 2, the original SimCity and it did a great job. So, you can build roads like this. Building feels really good. You take your let's say residential zone or let's do commercial and you just like that, boom, then people move in. You have the different sort of how fast time passes, you're adding your power plants, police stations, fire, all of that. It did a pretty good job of rendering all the cars, all the pedestrians, the the night cycle and it tells you when you're not getting enough electricity, etc. You know, it's got the money up at the top. Overall, I mean it's pretty simple, but for again, for a start, it's pretty good. It's got kind of the the basics of the game, the engine of the game and it's looking pretty good. Here's another one, kind of Elder Scrolls copy. It decided to go with a little bit more a Daggerfall theme. So, an old school 2D game. I didn't specify 3D, maybe I should have. You can name it whatever you want. You can name your character, you can choose which race you're going to be starting with, Nord, Mark, Dunmer, Khajiit, Breton. Let's try the quick people and this is you know, what it looks like. So, all in all, you know, I mean again, this is a certain aesthetic so it might not be for everybody, but you know, these games that used to be very popular back in the day. You have dialogue system. This person is specifically telling you like, hey, fire, you got to use a fire for certain enemies and the barrows northeast on our little uh which I just realized you can't see. So, notice we have our magic, health, I assume stamina, and we got a little compass at the top, our little attacks. So, yeah, this this is the game. I can accept a various quests, and then we go outdoors to attack, you know, various enemies, etc. And the combat is a little bit weird just because I think the enemies get a little bit too close, but overall, I mean, the design, you know, for a first attempt, I got to say it's pretty good. There's a lot to discover. I'm not sure if there's an open world or not, but uh you know, I'm sure there's a limits to it, but here's like the quest location. We can enter the dungeon, but there doesn't seem to be actually anything behind it. These things look weird. So, you can probably sense that there's kind of a a big gap between what I was showing you before and what you're seeing now. This was done with the API. So, immediately I feel like if this was done in the actual app, unfortunately, I'm you know, I wasn't able to survive this game, but I think if this was done through the Kimi app to the website, a lot of these things would have been fixed because it would go in there and take screenshots and just slowly kind of iterate until this whole thing looked good. Here's another example. This one was made in the CLI. Let me turn the music on. So, there's a a lot of good stuff happening here, you know, a lot of little details with the ship, although I don't know how accurate all that is. What really caught my attention was the water, how how good it looks within sort of, you know, with the reflections and everything else. It's looking pretty good. The physics, everything else, not as good as Fable, so I I you know, comparing it to Fable is definitely not as good, but graphics-wise, how it looks, you know, the the fact that this thing is, you know, turning the entire helm instead of just a wheel or whatever it's called, is definitely not as as good as something like what Fable 5 would have done. And uh finally, this is the last one. Basically, this kind of western game where, you know, you're going through the wild wild west, and the goal is to basically make it a seem like a a world that's alive. So, you have other travelers, you have towns. Looks like we have a little uh railroad on the left there. I'll skip forward a little bit just to get to some of the more interesting parts, but notice there's a train on the left. It It switched to night time. It's cloudy. We're approaching a town. So, the goal is to create kind of this procedurally generated town world and then have the scores go kind of on autopilot. Now, you don't have to go autopilot. You can turn that off and you can kind of go explore the world yourself. Nothing's stopping you. But, I also wanted to have an autopilot just so you can kind of like cruise through the world. But, notice here I I don't think the graphics are as good as what we saw in the first two instances. So, the one thing that's really jumping out at me is how different this model performs depending on if it has the right harness. When it has the right harness and the right context, the right sort of thinking history, as they say here, it seems to do just some amazing stuff, especially with design. But, when it's taken outside that environment, the performance kind of drops off. And as they say here, despite being a highly competitive model overall, K3 nevertheless exhibits a noticeable gap in user experience compared with Claude 5.5 and GPT 5.6 Soul. And, you know, that's definitely true and this is why it makes it this such an interesting model. Because without a doubt, there's a lot of power there. There's a lot of intelligence there. And I think the big conversation will be about, you know, these agentic harnesses. I think it just like the Western Labs had a head start with the models, they've also had a head start with designing things like Claude Code and Codex and all the other various interpretations of that like Open Claude, Hermes. And there's a lot more coming out recently. Just in the last week or so, there's more and more sort of competitors popping up in that space. What I think this model is is kind of a testament to what happens when you have restrictions. They needed to make something happen that was as good as the Western Labs without the compute, the capital, and they did. They showed the world that they can match it in a lot of ways even though they they don't have the same resources as Anthropic and Open AI and Google and XAI. The whole point of a lot of these breakthroughs is how do they do more with less? How do they convert compute into intelligence more effectively? And I think they've nailed the model and I think pretty soon we're also going to start seeing them do a lot of leaps in terms of like that harness. Cuz right now, Kimi code, KFC, whatever you want to call it, doesn't feel great. It doesn't feel as good as just going to kimi.com and and just typing the prompts in there. Same thing with Kimi API. It feels like it needs a a sort of an ecosystem to work. They've created that with kimi.com and everywhere else. Again, I've only had it for less than a day, only several hours of actually kind of in-depth testing. So, I might be completely wrong in this, but my first things, they were not coming out very well. And I was actually kind of confused why my results weren't matching what I was seeing everyone else put out. I actually did quite a few prompts to try to see if maybe it was a a different model underneath the hood. As far as I can tell, it's what they say it is. Then I noticed that Bijan put this particular result and I was like, "Okay, this is what I kind of expected to look like. Why aren't I getting results like this?" And I noticed that he was running it within Kimi chat. So, he was running it through the browser, through the kimi.com website. And that's why I decided to put the prompts in there. And that's when the results were excellent. And this model doesn't care too much about some of the western values that we have here. It will rip off designs of famous trillion-dollar companies. It doesn't care too much about safeguards. It doesn't care too much about copyright. It's going to do what you tell it to do. But as soon as you even try to dip your toe into some of the topics that's kind of like the the Chinese side that doesn't want you to see, then all of a sudden it's like, "I can't help you there, buddy. I'm sorry. I don't even know what that is." So, it sounds like Moonshot, the company behind Kimi, will be releasing the full weights within the next few weeks. So, if you have what I assume is a few terabytes, like a drive of a few terabytes on it, you could possibly take the weights, download it, and store it on there. You're not going to be running this on your home computer. The amount of GPUs that you need to run it, you know, I mean, you're going to need millions of dollars of the high-end Nvidia GPUs in order to run this model effectively. But, once the weights are out there, the people that download them and and store them, they basically ensure that that's not going to disappear off the internet. It's not going to disappear. We're still going to have access to it, which kind of brings up a lot of these discussions about open-source AI. You know, is it safe? Is it Is it good? Is it bad? I mean, here we have a model that's extremely good at coding, that's willing to do some of the nefarious stuff. What if people discover that it is, you know, as good as, let's say, Mythos at cybersecurity, or maybe not even as good, but still very dangerous. The model is open-source. People can tweak it, fine-tune it, they can change it, they can preserve the capabilities while kind of morphing it into what they want it to do. And unlike most of the kind of Western AI labs, they can shut these models off, cuz we don't have the weights on our computer. We connect through some endpoint, through some API. So, if they pull the plug, we don't have access. Once the weights are out, you can't pull the plug on that. The rabbit is out of the box, out of the hat. The cat is out of the box, I think, is the expression. Whatever the case is, it's it's too late to take them back. And the White House is taking more steps to have control over who gets to release these frontier AI models. Obviously, if we're safeguarding kind of the the US models from being released on time, we'll check them, while at the same time, you know, China open-sources models that are just nearly as good, open-source. You know, you can download the weights, quantize the models, maybe fine-tune them. Then, all they're doing is just slowing down the US labs while China kind of races ahead. And all those are risky capabilities, they just are let loose in the world. Here's Nathan and Chen. So, he's a technical staff of Kimi AI. So, this is one of the people that's building, you know, Kimi 3 and all the models like that. He's saying, "Man, ignore the benchmarks and the race." He's saying, "Just ignore all that. He just wants there to always remain a frontier level intelligence model that is open and safe, available to everyone regardless of region. So, I think this is also yet another sort of quote-unquote attack on Anthropic and and Dario because so far they have been the most kind of vocal opponents of providing China with the chips, with with the models, and also kind of pointing their finger at open-source AI as a huge problem and a potential liability. So, Nathan's saying he's not here to win the race or be at the top of the benchmarks. He just wants there to be an open model on the frontier always that's available to everyone. Dario is stepping saying that this is concerning. He's saying for the first time a Chinese model has taken the number one on the front end code arena. Meanwhile, America's tying itself in knots. Politicians and bureaucrats are banning in new data centers, piling on at state regulations, and pushing for new federal agencies to pre-approve frontier models. This is how you lose the AI race. Permissionless innovation is how America won the internet and became the technological envy of the world. We can do it again with AI while addressing risks in a targeted way or we'll watch our lead evaporate. So, it's interesting to see kind of these two opinions side by side. One is like, I don't care about the race. Let's just have an open model for everybody. The other side is we need to win. There needs to be less regulation, you know, permissionless innovation, etc. And of course, we also have yet another faction that's saying that we need to pause, we need to regulate, we need to stop this development. Some say forever, some say until we can figure out alignment, but whatever the case, you know, there have been protests in San Francisco for example, a march on OpenAI, Anthropic, and Google DeepMind to demand stop the AI race. So, the race is heating up. There's a lot of very different people with different opinions about what we should be doing. For me, whenever I think through how we would pause AI or stop AI if we were to do it, I always run into a lot of like uncomfortable questions. Let's say we force all the Western labs to shut down. Does China follow suit? Does everyone else? The progress is such that, you know, we're building bigger, faster, stronger models that are more efficient. So, if everybody stops, in 5 or 10 years, what's not to say there might be some discovery that allows these frontier models to not cost millions of dollars to make. They can be easily transported on a flash drive. There's going to be a lot of people downloading the weights of Kimmy 3 when it comes out. They can be stored offline somewhere. There doesn't seem a way of doing this without some sort of a world government taking over. Here is Russ Salakhutdinov. So, he is at CMU, Carnegie Mellon University, I assume, right? So, XVP of research at Meta, working with multimodal LLMs, AI agents, ex-director of AI at Apple. Yeah, this is Carnegie Mellon, and he had a PhD student. That That student's name was Zhilin Yang, and that was the founder of Kimmy Moonshot. That was the guy that that started Kimmy 3 and all the models that can be for it. And as Russ says here, he's absolutely brilliant. Here he is. This is the founder. It's his first time speaking on camera, but he's doing an amazing job. So, this is from the tweet I showed you earlier. This is this is we. And here he's quoting a recent speech by Xi Jinping, the person who for the most part holds most of the power in China. And he's talking about building a system of global AI governance. So, he's talking about sharing of ideas, diffusion of AI technology, including via openness, as well as putting in place laws and regulations and various monitoring into make sure that we have emergency systems in in case things go bad. And it's important to understand that US will have a hard time banning models and not releasing certain models that they deem dangerous because China will very simply release those models or models that are similar to it just with an open source so that everybody can use it. Everyone, of course, will switch to the Chinese AI models, and nothing would have been accomplished. The other big thing is that China is a lot more protected against a dangerous model of uh cybersecurity capabilities than US. They're a lot more locked it down. They have a lot more control. A model like that is going to hurt the US a lot more than it does in China. So, I don't envy the decision-makers right now cuz uh shutting everything down seems uh nearly impossible. Pausing or slowing down development without getting uh some sort of an understanding with China also seems highly unlikely. But, I think the big point here is that Kimi 3 completely changed sort of the game our perception of what's happening. This idea that we have a lead and we're going to keep that lead and we should just continue on that course, that's out the window. That's kind of what Dario suggested in uh some of his essays. The idea that we have a lead so we should press it. I think with this model in particular, China is showing open source as a whole is showing that that lead is fleeting or non-existent. Me personally, I'd love to see the smart researchers on uh both sides in China and here in the US, the people actually building the stuff for them to come together and they has together and think about how to approach this. For the most part, I feel like a lot of them do try to do the right thing in general. I don't get this uh sense that most of them are greedy and just uh trying to make a few bucks. I think they are considering what is the best thing for the world. And they also have a good grip on what's actually happening with AI progress. But, how usually these meetings are handled is we send in the politicians, the short-sighted, ill-informed, greedy people that tend to mostly look out for themselves. I think this whole thing goes well if we get all the smart people communicating. But, what do you think? How do you see this ending? Do you agree that Kimi K3 really changes the situation or you think it's just kind of business as usual? Let me know in the comments. If you made it this far, thank you so much for watching. Consider subscribing. Give this video a thumbs up. It really helps. And it just kind of makes me feel better. My name is Wes Roth and I'll see you in the next one.